            DOCKER 

. to use docker you will first need to make sure that the docker process ie 
docker demon is running . you can do this using the service management 
commands in linux , 
. you can check the version of docker that you are running by typing the following 
commands ( docker -v or docker --version  ) 
. to verify that the docker process is running ie docker demon you run the 
following command (docker ps )
. if you run this command and you get no output you should know that 
the process is not running 
                    DOCKER IMAGE 

. image is a template for creating an environment of your choice . 
an image is also a snapshot 
. a container is an instance of an image .
what you have is an image and then from that image you run a container 
. first you will go to hub.docker.com 
. docker hub is simply a registry , and a registry is where you download docker images 
. if you want to see the list of images that you have localy you can run the 
following command 
docker images 
. now lets see how to run a container from an image , to run a conatiner 
you can simply run the following command 
docker run nginx:latest here latest is the tag 
. to see a list of all running containers you can the following command 
docker container ls 
. you can also see the container which is running by running the following 
command docker ps command 
. so we are now running a docker conatiner which is running nginx 
. and this conatiner is exprosed at port    80 
. if you run your webserver like mozilla at localhost:8080 the 8080 will 
be mapped to port 80 of the docker 
. to do this we simply run -p 8080:80 to say hey map 8080 to 80 when running the container 
. to stop a container you can run simply the following command 
docker stop <conatiner_id> 
. to run this while mapping the port you can simply run the conatiner as follows 
docker run -d -p 8080:80 nginx:latest 

            EXPORSING MULTIPLE PORTS 


. you can map more than one port to the same conainer for example 3000 and 8080 to the 
same port of container 80 
. to do this you simply do it the following 
docker run -d -p 3000:80 -p 8080:80 nginx:latest 
            MANAGING CONTAINERS 

. when you stop a conainer from running you have not removed it it is their 
it is simply not running 
.  to start a container you can simply run 
docker start <name_of_container_ or id> 
. to see the list of conainer that are not running 
docker ps --help to see help 
. if you run docker ps -a you will see a list of all the conainer that are in your 
machine . 
. now lets see how to delete a conainer 
. docker rm <name_or_id> 
. to remove all conainer you can do 
docker ps -aq | xargs docker rm
. if you want to force remove running containers as well you can add the -f flag to docker rm 
docker ps -aq | xargs docker rm -f
xargs accept many ids 
         lets look at naming the containers 
. to name a container you simply pass --name flag and then pass the name that you want your container to be 

    DOCKER VOLUEMES 
. VOLUEMES allows sharing of data . files and folders 
. VOLUEMES allow host to share data to the container and also containers 

. 

to enter the shell of nginx container you can simply run 
docker exec -it <name_of_container> bash 
. if you remove re flag while mounitng a volume to a container , this will allow your 
container to change the content 
. you can share volumes within conainers by using command volume from command 
--volumes-from 

        DOCKER FILE 
. docker file help us build our own images and then run a container from the image 
that we have created . 
. image is a template for creating an environment of your choice 
. snapshot need to run your apps 
. os , software, app code 
. when you are building your own image  you will never build an image from 
scrach basically you build your image from an existing image , and here 
is wher the FROM keyword in Dockerfile comes as it specify the base image 

